Hey,
guys,
welcome back.
So in this video,
we're going to speak about objects in Excel V B A.
So vb A or the visual basic.
For applications,
language is an object oriented language,
so V B A is full of objects.
It revolves around objects,
actually,
and all these objects have properties and properties are like characteristics and methods
which are like behaviors or actions or verbs that the object conduce.
So,
for example,
when you describe someone as being told,
okay,
someone's heights is a property.
If you think about that person as an object,
then his height is a property.
And also when you say that someone is walking or someone is running,
running or walking is a method.
If you think about someone as an object,
then walking or running is a method.
And if you think about stuff around us as objects,
so,
for example,
a car is an object,
and it has some properties and methods,
so part of the properties of the car is its color.
So color is a property because it's something that you can describe.
The car with the cars type,
for example,
is well,
is it in SUVs that event,
the car's brand.
So is the more CDs to BMW Toyota.
All these are properties,
and the car has some methods as well.
So moving when the car moves from one place to another,
that is a method.
So any object,
if you think about it,
has properties and methods.
And this is how XlV be a works.
If you think about your mobile phone as well.
Your mobile phone has some properties such as its color,
such as its screen size and its brand as well is in an iPhone.
Is is Samson.
All these are properties for the mobile phone,
and it has some methods as well.
Part of the methods are the actions that the mobile phone can do.
It can call.
It,
can text.
It can access the Internet.
All these are methods.
If you think about yourself as well as an object,
you have some properties and methods.
So part of the properties are your heights,
your eye color,
your skin color.
All these are properties.
Some of the methods that you can do you can eat.
You can sleep,
you can walk,
he can run.
All these are methods.
If you think about yourself as an object.
Now V.
B.
A has a lot of objects,
and as an example of the objects that you will encounter in XlV B A.
There is the range object,
so the range object is basically the cells.
In an Excel spreadsheet.
A range object can be a single cell or multiple cells,
so the range object has some properties,
like the value of the cell.
For example,
the value is a property,
and it has some methods,
such as the select method,
which is the method that used to select the cell.
Okay,
this is a method.
This is an action that you're going to do to the cell.
So this is why it's a method.
There's also the worksheet object.
The worksheet is an object,
so it has some properties,
such as its name.
So the name is a property,
the name of the worksheet.
And there are also methods like the select method to select the worksheet.
This is an action that you're going to do,
so this is a method.
There's also the copy method work she dot copy method for copying the worksheet.
The worksheet dot move as well.
The method for moving a worksheet as well.
This is a method or inaction that you're going to do to the worksheet.
There's also they sell workbook object so your workbook as well is an object.
It has some properties,
such as its name as well,
and it has some methods,
such as opening the workbook,
so workbook that open is a method.
Closing the workbook dot close is a method as well,
and we will learn about that in more detail as we progress through the course.
There's also the Excel application object,
so the Excel as an application is also an object that has some properties and methods.
And also you need to understand that objects can contain other objects and they're called
container objects.
So,
for example,
the Excel application object contains the Excel workbook object,
right,
because the Workbook Excel workbook is part of the Excel application on Also,
the Excel worksheet is part of the Excel workbook object as well,
because the worksheet is gonna be insight.
A workbook and also the range object is contained inside the worksheets object as well.
Okay,
so you need to understand the idea that objects can contain other objects also objects can
be part of a collection.
So we've got the idea off collections in xlv being collections are like different families
.
So we get the work sheets collection,
for example.
So this is like the worksheets family.
Okay,
The family of worksheets and all objects that are part of a collection will have the same
properties and methods.
Okay,
so when we say the worksheets collection,
that means that every worksheet belongs to this particular collection and that all the work
sheets will have the same properties and methods.
We've also got the work books collection.
So this is another family in XlV be a the workbooks family and the workbooks family
contains all the workbooks in XlV B A and all the workbooks.
Because they belong to this family that is called the collection have the same properties
and methods so or workbooks.
And exactly they will have the same properties and methods.
There's also this sells collection object so oversells will belong to the cells collection
object And why are collections useful in excel?
The V A While collections enable you to run code for all objects belonging to the same
collection so you can loop through a collection of objects to perform an action toe Every
member of the collection and we will learn about loops later on in the course.
So basically you can go through each member of a collection and performance action to that
.
Members weaken,
for example,
go through each cell in the cells collection and type a certain value to all the cells in
the cells collection.
For example,
perform any other action.
Okay,
so collections are very useful because the enable us to run code for all objects belonging
to the same collection.
And we will see that as well as we progress into the course.
Okay,
guys.
So that's it for objects in excel.
VB A Thank you very much watching this video and I'll see you on the next one.